---
layout: post
title:  "What iOS 8 Really Means"
date:   2014-06-05
---
Although many are claiming Apple's WWDC Keynote presentation was a
disappointment, the features announced at the conference are tackling some of
the biggest issues nearly every iPhone and iPad user has been complaining about.
Maybe you were expecting a Smart Band to be announced, or the next iPhone, but
no matter what you were waiting for, the features you can take advantage of
without upgrading your hardware are exactly what everyone has been waiting for.

<small>(Disclaimer: any predictions in this article about future products by
Apple are 100% predictions, and should be taken as such).</small>

### Extensions

This is one of the most mind-blowing features Apple is adding into their
software. You might have noticed how people are switching to Android devices,
claiming "Apps can do more" on the platform. And with the current and previous
generations of iOS, this has generally been true. But not any more. Applications
are no longer built in their own zones, blocked from interacting with each
other, which has been the main difference between the Android and iOS platforms.
Apple has opened up its file system with any service. You're no longer forced to
either save all your documents on your phone or upload them to Apple's iCloud.
For example, the Google Drive app could save your Pages documents, or OneDrive
can hold your photos. Any app that integrates with this built-in iOS 8 feature
will be extendable with these cloud service providers instantly, without work
from each developer to integrate multiple clouds. People also complained that
the keyboard isn't smart anymore. An objection I never actually understood. But
Apple has been listening. The keyboard on iOS 8 is changable, and applications
can install their own system-wide keyboard, that works in apps across your
entire platform--not just inside the app itself. Hello Swype. There are other
features apps can add too, like Widgets to Notification Center, or Like and
Comment buttons to the notification of a Facebook post, and a Reply option to a
new text message without leaving Notification Center. Instagram can add its
filters directly into the Camera app, and apps can use your fingerprint instead
of a written password. Bing can translate foreign webpages in Safari without
pulling you into another new app.

### QuickType

Even though the keyboard on iOS 8 is interchangable, the new built-in QuickType
keyboard with predictive typing is stunningly innovative. This has been a
feature on Android for some time now, but rumor has it, the system on Android is
moderately underdeveloped. It takes some getting used to only typing a letter or
two of your word, and sometimes not even anything at all, but tapping your words
to make a sentence rather than figuring out what to say makes life a lot easier.
QuickType also looks at what you're replying to, and suggests replies based on
that, so if your friend asks you if you know how to do something, the default
option could be "I don't know," or if someone asks you if you want to see a
movie, you can reply "Yes" or "No" with just one tap.

### Handoff

For the power Apple users (like myself), Handoff is one of the most exciting
features built across all of your devices. With Handoff, you're able to relay
things that generally would only be available on one of your devices to all the
others. And it's automatic. You may have already had a taste of this experience
with sending iMessages from your Mac, but being given all the features from your
phone now through your iPad or OS X device is something else completely. As you
have your phone charging in your bedroom, the kitchen or wherever you plug it
in, you may be using your laptop on the other side of the house when a new call
comes in on your iPhone—you no longer need to walk across the house to answer
anymore, since your Mac is ringing too. Answer it from your Mac and you'll
realize how lazy you actually can be with Handoff. Handoff works with more than
just notifications and calls though. When you find a cool desktop website on
Twitter or Facebook with your phone, just open it in Safari and as you move to
your Mac, Safari on your Mac can show you what you have open. When you're
writing a draft in Mail, you can seamlessly move to your Mac to finish the
message. Mail opens and the draft will be waiting for you. iOS 8 also adds an
API for developers to extend this feature, so it's not just Apple's software
that can make switching devices easier than ever. Imagine ignoring a Snapchat on
your phone and being able to reply from your Mac or iPad.

### HealthKit and HomeKit

You may have been thinking about getting one of the health bands for tracking
your workouts, your sleep and other data throughout you day, and now Apple is
jumping in with the new technology too. Although they didn't announce any Apple
branded bands during WWDC, we can't rule out the possibility of an accompanying
strap with the next generation of iPhone—a band that would already be fully
integrated with iOS 8's HealthKit features. But even if Apple isn't creating one
of these bands, the company decided to let the existing market shine
through—so if you've been holding off getting one of these accessories, iOS 8
gives you an even better reason. Developers will be able to implement iOS 8's
Health features into their products without an expensive partnership with Apple,
meaning the wristbands on the current market will all make great companions for
HealthKit. The strong integration of a connected house with HomeKit in iOS 8
makes it even cooler to jump on the smart light switch bandwagon. HomeKit marks
the first ever ability for an app to push it's features into Siri—something
developers have been waiting for since the assistants inception, and we could
easily see this become big in future Apple releases. The new kit also makes it
easier to automate your life. For example, set your alarm to play your music AND
turn on the bedroom lights in the morning when it's time to get up, or even have
iOS look at your sleep patterns with HealthKit and wait to wake you up at the
most convenient time. These new features can change the way we interact with our
phones.

### What this means

iOS 8 has a tremendous amount of enhancements for developers, and these changes
are going to make apps more immersive, and more integrative with each other and
with the iOS system. This is the first time Apple is opening up their secret
world to developers, and they're being careful about it. Even with the new
extendability, iOS continues to remain the safest and most advanced mobile
platform. Let me know your thoughts on iOS 8 or the overall WWDC in the
comments, or on Twitter [@hnryjms](https://twitter.com/hnryjms).
