---
layout: post
title:  "Rebranding Personal Projects to Hank Brekke"
date:   2015-08-04
summary: "Over the past few weeks, I've been in the process of rebranding my
personal projects to my own name, and phasing out z43 Studio from their name.
I'm still amazed at all I've been able to accomplish at my young age."
---
Over the past few weeks, I've been in the process of rebranding my personal
projects to my own name, and phasing out **z43 Studio** from their name. I'm
still amazed at all I've been able to accomplish at such a young age looking
back at what I've done under the old **z43** name. Over the past year working at
[Code42][code42], I've unfortunately found myself no longer planning the time
to build and support my personal projects. This rebranding effort can
hopefully revitalize some of the passion I still have towards solving big real
world problems.

The **z43 Studio** brand has been a growing experiment of my professionalism
and creativity in consulting and problem-based development, but the time has
come for the sun to set on the z43 name and be replaced with my own. This shift
is helping me promote my personal work as my own projects, rather than adding
an additional layer between me and my users. It also will hold myself more
accountable for the successes and failures of these projects. All of my projects
will be transitioning to a more personal branding over the next few months,
starting with my new showcase website.

These commitments, like attaching my own name to my work, rebranding my software
and making more of my projects open source, are all part of my new focus on
personal work. You'll be hearing a lot more from Hank Brekke in the next few
weeks, and seeing more amazing software come.

[code42]: https://code42.com/
