---
layout: post
title:  "An Expressive CMS for Node.js"
date:   2015-01-19
action: "Available on GitHub"
action_url: https://github.com/hnryjms/Expressive
---
**Expressive** is a new kind of web CMS, built with Node.js and Express. It's
an ultra-clean and modern, simple and extendable publishing app for blogs,
websites, portfolios and many other kinds of digital content. It bundles common
open source packages, and makes it easy for developers to build comprehensive
extensions and themes for your site. Expressive isn't ready for production use
yet, but the project is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/hnryjms/Expressive)
for contributions and testing during the development cycle. This is my first
open source project that is available on GitHub before it's finished. Expressive
is set up with [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org "Travis CI") testing, and
[Coveralls.io](https://coveralls.io "Coveralls.io") code coverage from
[Mocha](http://mochajs.org "Mocha") and [Istanbul](http://istanbul-js.org
"Istanbul"). Before moving to the public GitHub space, I rarely pushed
non-critical commits to the world, and now I'm using GitHub Issues and GitHub
Wiki for Expressive as well. Throughout the cycle of opening permissions to my
in-development projects, I've asked myself many questions about what could
change through contributions and scrutiny of such a large variety of developers.
Here are a few of the answers to my own questions.

### Who is going to benefit from my unfinished code on GitHub?

I didn't discover the answer to this question until I set up Expressive
with Travis CI. This is my first project to publicize the development and
testing process, and I'm learning new ways to write better tests overall. At
home, I run an OS X server powering Atlassian Jira and Bamboo, where I manage my
internal projects, time tracking, testing and deployment. I've always seen those
badges on GitHub projects claiming "Builds pass" or "99% Coverage" and I wanted
to jump on the free CI bandwagon. As I was publishing my code, I started
challenging myself to write better code. The idea that "this code is going to be
seen by all the [one-or-two] people who checkout my project," pushed me to make
sure that I was writing clean, tested and understandable code. No one should be
littering up GitHub with shitty projects, and I didn't want to be _that guy_.

### Will anyone understand the logic to my app's design?

This is another question that brings up the _don't litter GitHub with shitty
projects_ idea. Since I published my project online, I've found many sore spots
in my app through testing and code coverage reports. A lot can be said about a
complex app, but more can be said about an app that lets you easily start
building onto it. I also wonder if anyone really cares that they don't
understand the logic to my app. Expressive's goal is to be a great CMS for
non-technical users and for developers. By giving developers a preview about
where my project is now, what it's going to look like when it's ready for
extensions, and where it's going to be in the future, I've felt better about my
project. Of course there isn't much traffic on the alpha project, but as
Expressive develops, I hope to grow an amazing ecosystem of extensions and
developers.

### What if developers try to turn my app away from my vision?

I've seen this happen often in my professional career—where my idea or pull
request is quickly crushed by "dirty" code from other developers sneaking into
my app—and it was one of the last things I wanted for Expressive. I've also
found myself struggling to work efficiently on a team of other developers, since
control is one of the last things I can give up in a project. Although it's
hard, I have been forcing myself to realize that the projects I build are not
for me—they are for the rest of the world and the people who are using the
app. So letting the "perfect" code I write be "polluted" by the collaboration of
other developers isn't a loss, because in reality, my code is not perfect and
I'm not one to declare other code to be dirty. And if it is, I can just reject
the pull request.   If you've questioned publishing your content online,
write some of what your concerns have been in the comments.
