---
layout: post
title:  "Upgrading to Security Tokens on Bamboo Remote Agents"
date:   2017-12-18
summary: "We switched to Security Token Verification on Atlassian Bamboo, and our remote agents refused to connect."
---
Okay, this was a rough one to figure out. Using Atlassian [Bamboo][bamboo]{:target="_blank"} for CI/CD software
behind AWS [CloudFront][cf]{:target="_blank"} left us with a few implementation quirks that we needed to resolve. Most
notably, the IP Address-based *Agent Authentication* (the default security option) causes remote agents with static or
elastic IP's to still get rejected whenever CloudFront's proxying IP address changes.

We switched to *Security Token Verification* and updated our remote agents' wrappers to include `-t [token]`, but we
were still seeing this error message in our service logs:

```
********************************************************************************
*
* An error occurred while contacting the server. Message from the server is:
* Security token is required for preliminary authentication, but none was provided.
Please obtain the token from [server-url]/admin/agent/addRemoteAgent.action
* Agent will now shut down.
*
********************************************************************************
```

To successfully get existing Bamboo Remote Agents running after the switch, you also need to update each agent's
`conf/wrapper.conf` file before the remote agent will property send the security token when connecting. Here's how you
can solve the security token issue:

1. Add `-t [token]` given from Remote Agent Installation page in Bamboo (like normal) to the `java -jar ...` command
you use for launching the agent.
1. Edit `./bamboo-agent-home/conf/wrapper.conf` (probably using `vim`), and scroll to the `wrapper.app.parameter.0=`
line in this file (about half way into the file). You should see your server URL stored here.
1. In the `wrapper.app.parameter.3=` parameter, paste the security token (without `-t`) from Bamboo, and save the file.
1. Restart the Bamboo Remote Agent.

Why Bamboo caches the security token but still asks you to pass it in when running the wrapper, who knows 🤷‍♂️, but what
I can say, is that the `conf/wrapper.conf` file appears to have a higher priority when running the agent.

Does this help? Are you interested in how [HouseRater][hr]{:target="_blank"} builds software with Bamboo behind a
CloudFront SSL proxy? Let me know on Twitter your thoughts, I'm available at [@hnryjms][twitter].

[bamboo]: https://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo
[cf]: https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/
[hr]: https://www.houserater.com/
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/hnryjms
